[Applause]
it's great to be with you so what's new
anything going on nothing much no Rudy a
dog oh you've been in politics for quite
some time how does this rank as far as
on the outlandish scale for you the last
48 hours watching this transpire 18 out
of 10 anything now this this is a this
is kind of bizarre and you know it's
Rudy Giuliani is a great character
witness the president has yeah it's hard
to believe he was mayor of New York at
one time and seemed to be doing an okay
job I mean it's like his body was has
been taken over by another being I
didn't know the president could do that
maybe he's more powerful than we
realized it is almost like you and and
President Obama left the door to the
White House open and a bear got in it is
it's crazy
[Music]
have you heard from President Obama this
week no I haven't you have not no I have
not no you guys don't talk about this
kind of stuff oh we don't talk about
this kind of stuff is there a gossip
element to this sort of thing or is it
just trouble you I look it is you know
when you step back from it this is not
about me in my favor there's not one
single solitary legitimate journalists
in the world was given any credibility
this they've debunked all of what he's
had to say for the past since Giuliani
started this a while ago but what I do
worry about I said do worry about all
the other families that can't take care
of themselves and what's happening with
this president and his constant
diversions into look we want to get his
attention have 70 polls in a row showing
you beating him and that all of a sudden
gets his attention hey and so I think
that's why I'm the object of his
attention but look there's much more at
stake than then whether or not he's
acting so bizarrely this is the idea
that someone would call a head of a
foreign state ahead of time with whole
significant military aid that badly
needed in order to prevent the Russians
separatists they were in in Ukraine from
taking over Ukraine and and then asked
basically - can you cooperate with Rudy
Giuliani he's coming over and and and I
and the thing I learned we learned we
all learned recently is that statement
that the 2000 word statement released
was that talked about getting the
Justice Department engaged in this I
mean it's a is such a blatant abuse of
power that it's a majest
I don't think you can stand yeah it's
well do you think it isn't a peach
impeachable this particular instance is
an impeachable offense based on the
material that they acknowledge today it
seems to me it's awful hard to avoid the
conclusion that it is an impeachable
offense and a violation of
constitutional responsibility but look
that's I am confident
in the ability of the House and Senate
to deal with this my job is just to
gotten flat beaten so I what I can't let
happen I can't let this distract me in a
way that takes me away from the issues
that really are the reason why I'm
running this is a fundamental reason
this overwhelming we have to restore the
soul of this country and who we are that
our values and and the idea that we're
not paying any attention he doesn't want
us to pay attention to health care which
you and I both know a lot about I need
not do anything about dealing with the
environment
don't do anything about the rampant
abuse of guns on our streets I mean so
many things and let alone the
international issues we have I mean this
guy embraces kim jongmin talks about he
believes putin over his intelligence
community i mean the damage being done
is monumental how much of your desire to
run is related to donald trump being
president in other words if someone if a
decent man like Jeff Jeb Bush had won
the Republican nomination would would
you feel as motivated to run
I guess the honest answer is no then
look I hadn't planned on running again
when when my son passed I he made me
promise I wouldn't tell anybody how
serious this circumstance was so my
staff still thought we had a campaign in
waiting and when I went out to tell the
president that I told him I was
definitely not going to run after Boat
past I
he said come down to the White House and
to the Oval we'll go out in the Rose
Garden you make an announcement and and
I said at the time when I walked out I
knew I'd be asking a question to have
any regrets and I said I have one but I
wouldn't be the president that gets to
preside over the end of cancer as we
know it because I had done the cancer
moonshot and we made so much progress
and but even then I hadn't planned on
running until I saw those people not not
a joke Jimmy when I saw those folks in
Charlottesville coming out of
feels carrying torches contorted faces
their veins bulging shouting the same
anti-semitic pile that was shouted in
the streets of Nuremberg and Berlin and
throughout Germany the 30s accompanied
by the Ku Klux Klan and when the
president was asked when a young woman
was killed asked to respond he said well
there were very fine people on both
groups no president is ever ever ever
sitting like that with the possible
exception of Andrew Jackson before the
Civil War and that's what I decided how
can i I've spent my whole life doing
this how can I remain silent because I
was raised by a dad who taught me solace
his complicity this is the way that he's
tried to divide this country and the way
he has pitted people against one another
and you saw it didn't just end and you
know with Charlottesville look what
happened in El Paso recently you know
we're gonna young man saying I shot all
these people in the parking lot because
there's a Hispanic invasion well the
president just weeks ahead and the 20:18
off your campaign kept showing that
video people marching up we're being
invaded by Latinos and Mexican are
rapists and and this division in our
country is just so devastating so
devastating for so many people and it's
ruining our standing around the world in
a way that it's gonna be hard to replay
we can probably handle for years if you
doesn't get us in the war in the next
year and I'm not being a wise guy I'm
not being glib saying that but eight
years of Donald Trump will fundamentally
alter the character this nation in my
view and you know III don't we we can't
let that happen
what are your thoughts on because I know
that one of the things you believe
strongly is that we can reach across the
aisle Democrats and Republicans can work
together you have many friends who are
Republican in fact Lindsey Graham today
said he considers you to be one of his
very good friends and then said you know
and then he tagged something unpleasant
on to it
why aren't more Republicans standing up
and saying hey this is this just we
can't go along with this anymore well
look first of all I I don't know if any
degree of certainty but I do have a
sense that most the time when a
Republican is beaten in the state that
is a purple or red state meaning
Republican a Republican state they're
beaten on the right they're not beaten
in a general election they're beaten in
a primary and Donald Trump has sort of
he's got the entire Republican Party
whether it's thirty four percent of the
public or thirty eight I don't know but
he has control of that part of the party
and so if you take him on everybody
knows how vindictive he is and how I'll
go after you and so there's a great
concern for example back when when they
were holding up before Trump got elected
they were holding up the nomination of
the president put forward from the
Supreme Court very try America I really
find man and and they weren't in a hold
hearings and I called literally twelve
Republican senators and I said you know
this is a terrible thing to be doing
you're sitting on awful precedent every
one of them but one acknowledge that but
they said well you know if we do this if
we call for hearing they the Koch
brothers will drop ten or twelve million
dollars into our campaign and I'll have
a race or Joe I still have a primary
it's just gotten doubly worse since
Trump's gotten elected and I I'm of the
view look our politics is broken not the
system the politics is broken and it's
gotten so mean and ugly and divisive
that I just think with him gone there's
a chance for to breathe new life into
what everybody knows has to be done for
example at the end of the last term the
thing that's very personal you and me
health care I care greatly about it you
have to do too and but by the way I want
to thank you not a joke thank you for
middle
[Music]
don't underestimate what you dig pal you
fundamentally said because as you
pointed out folks like you and I have
gone through some difficult times at
least we've had the wherewithal in the
coverage and the help imagine all the
people if there were lights around I bet
if I asked all the people out there who
have a had a child that they lost to
cancer or at a serious disease or a
serious problem and had real real real
concerns about a family member who's in
extremity raise your hand if any of you
went through anything like that so
minute and and imagine look at all the
people out there Jimmy who are doing
this getting up every day putting one
foot in front of their face when you
face with your with your child what I
face with my son and and that help we
have their heroes they get up every day
and I made a commitment and I mean it
that if I would like the president I
guarantee you I will protect your
family's health care just like I protect
my own as if at my own because it's
right back mr. vice president if
President Obama had at some point during
his presidency put you in charge of an
imaginary thing called the space force
wouldn't have a DD you would have agreed
to take on the good news was that I
worked with a really fine man the deal
we made he asked me when he asked me to
to join I was flattered he asked me to
join the ticket which I did and as the
best decision ever made but one of the
things that worked Jimmy was he we made
a deal that we would always be blunt
with one another and we had lunch every
single day when we're both of the
country and we would be completely
straight with one another because I
asked him why want to be his vice
president he said because I know you'll
never come and be intimidated by the
office so tell me what what's on your
mind and and so we've had a great
relationship when he's given me
authority he gave me presidential
authority because he knew I knew what he
wanted he knew I wouldn't do anything
contrary to his view and the good news
was we agreed on 99 percent when you
speak to young people I know you're out
talking to a lot of people all the time
what is the number-one subject that that
they bring up I think the number-one
subject it believe it or not it
fluctuates between climate and guns
mm-hmm
and you know the generation that is most
anxious about their future today are
people between 15 and 21 because of guns
they ask what is the worst thing what
are they most concerned about they're
concerned about going into school and
getting shot yeah and and also that the
idea that our planet is and secondly and
more importantly quite frankly on long
run as our planet is real and real real
difficulty we should be acting as if
that John Kerry says as if we're
declaring war here this this has to be a
war on dealing with climate change
exactly at sequential at the Obama
administration which obviously you were
a major part of do you wish that you
done more
at that time well actually we did an
awful lot I we invested over a hundred
billion dollars or ninety billion
dollars and climate change i back and
way back in 1986 introduced the first
climate change bill requiring us to
change our focus and say did you start
thinking about that in 1980 because i
could see it was happening in my state I
could see what was happening species
were beginning to be lost we found
ourselves we have a lot of wetlands from
along the Delaware River and down the
Delaware Bay and what was happening is
they were gonna they wanted to build
refineries and I ended up being able to
block them by changing the zoning and we
ended up with the first coastal zone
Akron nothing can be built within a mile
of those of those wetlands but because I
saw from the folks at the University of
Delaware and the marine biologists that
how much was changing and you know the
pollution of the waters and look what
this presidents done every single basic
rationale piece of legislation and or or
change we made from the cafe standards
how many miles the car can get need to
get all the way to not allowing them to
dumps coal mines to dump sludge in
rivers etc to dealing with mercury every
one of those he's walked away from that
acted against and he's taking them back
allowed them to be allowed the polluters
to continue and he goes to the g7
doesn't show up at the climate meeting
he ends up at the UN doesn't want any
part of the climate look look at what
that I can't I wonder whether there's
ever been a president or there probably
had been other heads of state in other
countries who've spoken addressed the UN
and not a syllable was heard from any of
the members of the United Nations in
support of anything just silence yeah
silence maybe he figures since he lives
most of the time in a tanning bed it
doesn't matter what
to the climate look look there's so much
we can do well IIIi am look America is
better positioned today than any time in
my lifetime to lead the world on
everything from climate to cancer to
dealing with rebuilding the middle class
to bringing the world together we have
the we have the most significant
research universities in the world we're
in a situation where have more great
great research university and all the
rest of the world combined we're in a
position where our workers are three
times productive as workers in Asia we
have we lead not only by the example of
our power but the power of our example
we have we have so much going for us and
I think it's time we as Americans just
stop feeling sorry for lift our head
this is United States America mr. vice
president are you saying you want to
make America great again the envy of the
world thank you so much for being
thanks for watching if you liked that
video click the subscribe button and if
you didn't like it will you hurt my
feelings